To-Do-List Project from The Odin Project, I will be attempting to practice the SOLID principles for better code maintainability and scalability, as well as learning to use new npm packages and using localStorage for persistence.

I started off with the following data structure hierachy: ProjectManager -> Project -> Task, after which I implemented the various CRUD operations for the Project and Task classes, which were implemented as factory functions. After which, I setup some dummy data and verified that the logic was finished.

I then created the various components for the DOM, however I should have planned this out more before I started, similar to how I planned out the logic. Many of the class and id names for the elements are not representative of their actual functions. For instance, the various elements in the edit-task-form were labelled as edit-*, however it was later reused for the add-task-form as well, rendering these names unrepresentative of their actual purpose. I also had to make some changes to the logic after it was supposedly done, as well as implement many workarounds such as using dataset extensively to store the indexes of each task index and their respective project index. In hindsight, this could have been circumvented if I had used a unique ID identifier for the tasks and projects as attributes, or perhaps an index attribute that could be read directly to be used for removing objects and such.

I mistakenly expected the DOM portion to be significantly easier compared to the logic part, but it was the other way round or maybe as a result of improper planning for the DOM. It actually took much longer as I had to individually create elements and dialogs for the various functions, which there were a lot of. I will take note of this in future projects.

The last thing I implemented was localStorage, and it was a lot of work to refactor my previous logic to properly unwrap the item object data such the projectList could be converted into a raw string that included the item object data as well. I started a bit of work on it and was stuck with how to convert the item object data, essentially how to "store functions", which I used Copilot to help fix, and it suggested that I used map() and checking whether the respective object attributes were functions, where it would then call createItem() if it was, thus "storing" the functions of the item factory function. This also applied to readProject() as well, where by using map() and checking the various items whether there were factory functions, and calling readItem() on them.

Overall, I think that it was the most intensive project from The Odin Project thus far, really challenging me to think and plan ahead, which will be important in future projects with a large scope similar to this. My biggest takeaway would be to structure my logic very, very carefully next time, and also to plan my DOM in tandem, to avoid this situation from occuring again.